Hello and welcome to this new tutorial.
And welcome again to step nine on reinforcement learning.
So now that you've just seen intuition lecture with Carol to understand what reinforcement learning
is about.
Well we will implement some what we call pseudo code so that we can understand where reinforcement learning
comes into play in this full world model meaning we're basically going to implement a very simplified
code that will follow all the steps of the process happening in the full world model from start to finish.
You know from the first observations which are the very first inputs going through the CNN then the
the E which returns the latent vector z which will become the input of the controller.
Also taking the hidden state as a second input then this controller will return the action to go inside
the environment get the reward but also to go back into the MDA and Arnon because remember that the
Indian origin actually takes three inputs the action the previous in state and the latent vector z.
So we will recap all that into a code.
This will not be the real and final code of the full world model which we will execute in the end to
you know race against our A.I..
But it's important to still implement that pseudo code so that we can not only really understand the
process of the full world model but also put what you've learned about reinforcement learning into practice.
All right so let's do this.
And just before we start this.
So the implementation I would just like to remind that the controller you know right here in the full
world model is actually a simple linear matrix.
You know it's a simple single layer linear model which is exactly that matrix here WC which takes obviously
as input that an H that we can see here clearly and which will return as output the action.
And it's really really important that you understand this that the controller is actually a simple matrix
therefore of several weights or several parameters because then in Step 10 we will start to learn about
genetic algorithms and evolution strategies which will exactly optimize the parameters inside this control
matrix in order to maximize the cumulative reward.
And speaking of the cumulative reward well we will include that in the of the code.
You know that's really part of the process here.
It is actually what's happening here you know once the action is played by the controller Well we get
a reward inside the environment you know depending of course on the score that you saw in the very first
tutorial of this course.
Basically the faster the car goes and the further it gets along the road the high will be this court
and therefore the higher will be the cumulative reward along one episode and that reward is important
because that's exactly what we need to optimize and maximize things to the deep neuro evolution strategies
in stepped in.
So we will basically implement in that so the code everything to be ready for stepped in and also of
course to put what you've learned about reinforcement learning into practice.
All right so let's do this.
Let's go back to Python and let's implement the whole full world mode process of course very simplified.
All right.
So we're going to start from the very beginning.
That's why I've put the whole process of the full world neural just next to my code.
And so the very first step is of course when the input frames come into the CNN view.
Right.
Remember that we implemented the C and plus the v e in the same court and we call that a cone.
The E and so that's of course the first step of the process.
But before we start you know this loop that will basically loop over all the iterations happening in
one game you know exactly this game that we and the A.I. played at the very first tutorial of this course.
Well we have to reset everything we have to reset the environment.
We have to get the initial state.
We have to set down to false.
There is always a done and a reinforcement learning environment.
And it says whether the game is over or not.
You know Don equals true means that the game is over.
The race is over.
And then of course false means that the game still continues like we're still racing.
And of course before we start the loop we have to initialize to cumulative reward to zero.
Right.
I told you about the cumulative reward.
It is at the very beginning you know just before the race starts initialized to zero and then at each
iteration we're going to incremented by the reward got at a very specific step of the environment meaning
when the controller plays an action.
All right so let's do all this initialization starting with the environment so usually when you work
with a reinforcement learning environment like the car racing game which is a pre-built an environment
I think by opening a gym.
Well the developers of such environments always implement a reset method which not only resets the environment
but also returns the first image or observation of the game.
So you know that's the very starting point of the race.
And so that's our first app here.
And therefore I'm going to introduce a new variable which we're gonna call ups and that's exactly the
real frame that the agent will see in reality therefore before the dream and so ups will get that first
observation or first input frame by calling the reset method from the environment object of the car
racing game.
And so to call a method from an environment object you know.
And here is an objective.
The car is in game environment.
Well we added that and we call that method.
Reset with some parenthesis.
All right so you will see that all the time playing with opening a gym environments.
Then why do we say.
The second thing we need to initialize here is of course the initial state of the engine art and right.
Remember that in the engine or an engine especially in the iron then we not only have the output set
of the iron and but also the hidden state.
I've prepared that for you actually right here.
Just as a quick reminder right you can see that the iron in takes as input three elements the previous
instate the previous action plate and the previous latent vector z and returns is output.
Well first the deterministic output of the iron in and of course the hidden state.
And what we have to initialize here is the first hidden state which will come into the iron in and remember
that we actually had a parameter for that when we implemented the iron and it was I think called the
initial state.
So that's exactly what we have to initialize right now.
And so we're going to call that H.
And if we go to our on an implementation.
Well that's exactly what we introduced here as an object variable of the iron in this by the way will
be of course part of the real final implementation.
This is just some pseudocode.
But what you have here are the real variables of course of the whole implementation.
All right.
And so back in our reinforcement learning sort of implementation.
Well since the initial state you know this object variable that we created here comes from the build
model method of the engine aren't in class.
Well we will simply call it this way so that everybody can understand we're going to take an M.D. and
are an object of that same engine aren't in class from which we're going to get the initial state object
variable exactly this one.
Right.
It doesn't really matter here at this stage which format take exactly.
But at least this way everybody will understand that this is indeed an object variable the initial state
of the engine on an object of the engine and aren't in class.
All right.
So that initialize is the initial state then very important when you're iterating on an episode or also
called a rollout of a reinforcement learning environment.
You always have to initialize first the done variable which is always one of the four variables in each
and every step of the environment which are let's remind them the current state the action plate the
reward received and this done variable telling whether or not the game is over.
And of course when we starting the game you know because right now we're initializing everything before
we start the big loop of the game or of the race well done we'll be cool of course too false because
the game is about start it is not finished yet.
So done equals false.
And then finally very important as well especially for what we will do in Step Ten to maximize or optimize
the cumulative reward by finding the optimal parameters of the controller you know in that matrix WC
that I've showed you before.
Well compulsory step as well.
We have to initialize a cumulative reward to zero.
And now we can start the loop we can start a whole loop of the game.
So this whole loop will be a single episode of the A.I. racing its car in the environment.
So since we have done very well well the simplest way to implement that loop is with a while you know
well not done.
Meaning while the game is not done well we are not finished racing our cars.
Well what will happen.
Well here.
That's when things start to get interesting because that's from this point.
We will follow executive path of the full world more so we're gonna start from the very beginning from
here when we get the input frames from the game of our car racing in the car racing environment and
then following all this path while not forgetting any of the loops here you know until the final step
of the path.
When we reached the next state in the environment and then here again the process starts again.
All right.
So the very first step is to get the input frame then the input frames goes into the VAB which returns
the latent vectors.
And so what we will simply do here is since we've already initialized the observation meaning we got
the first observation.
Well we can directly get the output of the V.
You know that latent vectors.
And then you know later on in loop we will update the observation once we reach the final step of the
process.
But first we have to get that Z that latent vectors that.
So what I'm gonna get here the next step is to get that latent vector z which will be returned by the
V.
And remember in the V we called R class cone V.
So let's say that the object of this class which we will create later on to use that part of the full
world model with the country.
Well let's say that this object is called C and the AP or county as you prefer.
And so the C and V.
Let's simply write that it takes as input as we can clearly see here.
Well the observation the observation which was initialized in avoid all the ups variable and therefore
here we simply input ups.
All right.
So that's the first step getting the observation.
It goes in to the CNN V which returns the latent vector C..
Great.
And now next step.
What is the next step after we get the latest vector z.
Well very simply the latent vector zis propagated up to the controller which takes it as input but which
also takes the hidden state the hidden state that we already have because we initialized it in the initialization
step and therefore we're gonna get it now with our other input Z.
Therefore we are ready to call the controller and we're ready to get the action returned by the controller
which will go into the environment.
So let's do this let's get our action which we're gonna call a And now let's call our controller which
will of course be created later on in the implementation.
And as we can clearly see on the Oracle Well it takes as input that horizontal input vector z t and
H2 you know the current latent vector z the last one got and the current hidden state H.
So make sure to not confuse that with a product.
This is just a horizontal vector and the reason why I say horizontal vector is because we are doing
here again a matrix multiplication.
You know this is a simple two dimensional matrix which will be multiplied as in matrix multiplication
by this vector composed of Z T and H2.
And so that's exactly what we going to sort of implement right now.
We'll put these two vectors into a concatenated one dimensional input vector as it is said here.
You know you can catch needed input vectors at the HD and therefore to simply write this we're going
to add in some parentheses here that concatenated vector into square brackets and we will just input
here said an H.
Right.
So basically that means that the controller takes that concatenated input vector composed of as we can
clearly see here the latent vectors then and the hidden state age which we both have because we initialized
the hidden state age and we just got the latent vector Zi.
So we ready call the control with those two elements to get the action.
All right.
And that's the next step.
And now let's see.
Next thing we have to do.
Well very interesting.
That's the missing part of the full well model which we haven't covered yet and which is really the
step where reinforcement learning comes into play because that's now that we're going to call our environment.
You know that environment object of decreasing Game class really built by opening a gym because our
environment as for any environment of any games in opening a gym has this method that we call step and
which is exactly the method taking as input.
The action that was just played to return three very important elements.
You know the elements of a step of a reinforcement learning environment which are first the next state.
So the next observation happening in the game and therefore the next input frame to go again into the
full process.
Then the second element is of course the reward the single reward received at the specific iteration
but which will be incremented into the total cumulative reward.
And the third element of course done you know telling us if the game has stopped.
So for the core racing game done will only be equal to true when it's the end of the game you know when
we have reached the 30 seconds but sometimes for some games.
Well the game can finish before all right.
And so that's exactly what we're about as we were about to go this step method from the environment
which I remind once again is a pre-built method by opening a gym environments but it is always called
Step and therefore let us get it.
The step method returns as we said the three essential elements of a reinforcement learning environment
which are first the next date with which we're gonna curl ups because it is simply the next observation
of the game and therefore we're updating our abs variable which will become the new observation basically.
Then of course the reward obtained at that specific iteration and then done telling us whether or not
the game is over.
That is for our case to Congress in game whether or not we have reached the final 30 seconds.
All right.
And so these three essential elements.
Well we will get them by calling our environment that same here but this time we're not going to call
the reset method.
We're going to call as we said the step method which takes as arguments.
Well exactly that action played here by the controller and therefore since we have it here since we
got it by calling the controller with our two elements the latent vector z and the hidden state h Well
we can simply input here.
This last action played a.
All right.
And perfect.
And so now the next step is very natural since we got the reward at that specific iteration Well we
can update the cumulative reward by incrementing it by that reward.
We've just got in that specific iteration.
And so here what we're going to do is updated by incrementing it by that reward just obtained.
And now there is a final step.
We must not forget you know we have initialized the initial state of the MGM Ireland but at no time
have we updated it.
And that while loop you know that loop iterating on the whole game you know the whole race.
And so we have to indeed get the next hidden state which is exactly what's happening here.
You know there is a loop here right after the MGM are and then returns the hidden state.
Well that hidden state is taken back to the engine Arnon along with the last action plate.
That's exactly what we see here in the engine on and part of the article.
Right.
We clearly see here the previous hidden state which comes from the retro loop of the awning which you
saw in the intuition lecture.
Right.
And so what we have to do now the last step before we make this game loop complete is to update the
hidden state age or you know to get the next hidden state and therefore to do it.
Well we're going to call again our engine on an object from the engine on in class which were built
in.
Well step eight.
So we're gonna call that object and very simply we're going to take as input the three inputs of the
engine Arnon which are the previous hidden state.
The last action plate and the previous late in fact Z to return that next hidden state and therefore
to write that simply well we're going to update the hidden state h by calling again R M.D. and on an
object which we already introduce here and then are an object of the MGM Arnon class which will take
as input this time can captain a vector of three elements which are as we've just said the last action
plate right.
That's the last action plate.
Then the last latent vector z which is exactly this one said.
And finally the last hidden state which at the first iteration of this while loop is the initial state
H but then at the second iteration and the next ones it will be of course the previous hidden state
eight of the previous iteration and perfect.
This is how works a reinforcement learning environment for the full well known.